README.md, before:

# Portfolio Project
## PROJECT APP - FULLSTACK 
### (w/ Firebase)

**Global Agent** by Anita Owen, Armando Pires, Brenda Soto, Luis Tejada and Marlon Regis.. 🧑🏾‍💻 We also had some incredible `global mentors` from both design and technical teams @ BLACKSTONE that helped guide us along the way and deserve mention: Aditi Bhatia & Rachel Tamarkin (Design) x Sophia Setsu & Punit Naik (Technical). You ALL are very much appreciated!

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/t_Gradient fade/v1720196363/GlobalAgent-Home_yo5qv7.jpg" alt="Global Agent!" width="800" height="400">

**Global Agent** is a form of `edutainment` where players -- middle to high school aged, join an elite agency of news detectives, solving cases by investigating current events and world news. Gamified Education at its best.

## Game Structure
1. **Agency Headquarters**(Dashboard): The main interface where players manage their detective profile, view cases, and track progress.

2. **Case Files**: Each news article becomes a case file, complete with a brief, eye-catching headline and a "difficulty rating".

3. **Investigation Process**:
   - Read the article summary (case briefing)
   - Gather evidence (answer questions about the article) 
   - Connect the dots/write up case report (final summary question or task)

4. **Ranking System**:
   - Rookie Detective - 0 xp
   - Junior Investigator - 500 xp
   - Gumshoe - 1300 xp
   - Chief Detective - 2800 xp
   - Master Sleuth - 5000 xp

5. **Rewards**:
   - Detective badges for different countries
   - Agency points for solving cases and leveling up to buy special gear or tools

6. **Missions**:
   - Daily cases (breaking news)
   - Weekly investigations (in-depth stories)

### Future Features
7. **Multiplayer Elements**:
   - Form detective teams to solve complex cases
   - Agency vs Agency competitions
   - Global leaderboards

8. **Mini-games**:
   - Spot the fake news
   - Rapid fact-checking
   - Guess what country the case file images is from


Our efforts to build this app utilized the following below **Project Tools & Skills**:
- React Hooks
- React Router 6.2.1
- Forms
- Express Server Starter
- Database Schema
- Seed Data
- Middleware
- Controlled Inputs
- Event Handlers
- Fetch API
- Promises
- Error Components (included)
- Data Manipulation & Parsing
- Helper Functions
- Cloudinary
- Firebase
- Trello Board
- dbdiagram (ERDs)
- wireframes (figma)
- HTML, CSS, JS
- CSS Grid 
- Render.com backend deployment
- Netlify.com frontend deployment
- DATABASE (ElephantSQL & Postico)
- Self learning
- Several APIs (including World News API)
- ChatGPT
- AI

**Access**: `Global Agent` is a mobile app, go to (netlify link: ?) to access our `Global Agent` app.


## ROUTES
Many routes were used for the following files below:

-


<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720199090/GlobalAgent-top_secret_nox0i7.png" alt="top secret!" width="600" height="400">


## USER STORIES

1. The app should be free to download, informative and be available on any mobile device.

2. As a user, ?

3. As a user, ?

4. As a repeat user, ?

5. As an avid user, ?


## User Personas:

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720465536/GlobalAgent-Sarah_wdlnqn.webp" alt="Sarah!" width="300" height="300">

1. Meet `Sarah Thompson`, **Sarah** is a 42-year-old mother of two, including 15-year-old Max, a high school sophomore. Sarah, a marketing executive, values education and staying informed about world events. She's increasingly concerned about Max's lack of interest in current affairs and his tendency to spend hours on social media and video games. Max finds traditional news sources boring and overwhelming. Sarah reaches out to Max's Social Studies teacher for advice on making current events more appealing to teenagers. She's looking for interactive, engaging tools that can compete with Max's favorite apps while sneaking in educational content. When the teacher recommends the `Global Agent` web app, Sarah immediately sees a blend of Max's love for gaming with her desire for him to learn about the world. Sarah hopes Max will enjoy using this app, sparking his curiosity about global issues and improving his critical thinking skills.


<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720466199/GlobalAgent-Alex_Chen_uxq1hf.jpg" alt="Alex!" width="300" height="300">

2. Meet `Alex Chen` -- **Alex**, a 14yo 8th grader, represents the ideal user for the `Global Agent` app. Tech-savvy and curious about world events, Alex seeks an engaging way to learn about current affairs while improving critical thinking skills. Motivated by a competitive drive and a love for solving mysteries, Alex enjoys the game's interactive elements, visual progress tracking, and variety of challenges. Despite having a short attention span for traditional news, an eager Alex checks the app daily, tackling quick cases on weekdays and longer investigations on weekends. The game helps Alex balance educational content with entertainment, while providing a platform to discuss current events with peers and family.


## ABOUT US!
<p align="center">
  <b>Anita Owen:</b> <a href="https://github.com/AnitaOwen">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720015246/AnitaMagentaphoto1_dt1uea.jpg" alt="Anita!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Armando Pires:</b> <a href="https://github.com/ArmandoPires103">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720020802/Armando_Pires_2_lljm1y.jpg" alt="Armando!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Brenda Soto:</b> <a href="https://github.com/BSoto85">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1711388131/TeaWhips-Brenda_ybojtq.jpg" alt="Brenda!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Luis Tejada:</b> <a href="https://github.com/Blui322">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720021062/Luis_Tejada_2_xyauz4.jpg" alt="Luis!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Marlon Regis:</b> <a href="https://github.com/MarlonPelau">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/t_Profile/v1712883521/pelau_yfhd9e.png" alt="Marlon!" width="300" height="300">

Some of us just want to code!


### Visual Examples
The following are examples of the `Global Agent` app being built at different stages. Here are just a few rough and sketchy images showing the process. The entire navigation flow aims to move in this direction directly below.

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720446301/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.44.37_AM_xc7o0r.png" alt="workflow" width="800" height="400">


*WIREFRAMES* (mobile) for different pages throughout the `Global Agent` app.

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720446495/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.47.44_AM_frjnxv.png" alt="Landing/Home" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720447060/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.57.09_AM_tnzpse.png" alt="Sign-Up" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720463960/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_2.38.48_PM_q8fcic.png" alt="Achievements View" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720463960/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_2.38.48_PM_q8fcic.png" alt="Leaderboard View" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720448616/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_10.23.04_AM_hos26b.png" alt="Countries View" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720463960/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_2.38.48_PM_q8fcic.png" alt="Case File View" width="250" height="400">


*ERDs* (tables)

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720446179/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.41.54_AM_bd51nt.png" alt="Global Agent" width="600" height="400">


# DEPLOYMENT (& SLIDE) LINKS

### Frontend Deployment: https://github.com/BSoto85/global-agent-frontend
**my netlify.com link**: ?

### Backend Deployment: https://github.com/BSoto85/global-agent-backend
**my render.com link**: ?

**ERD**: https://dbdiagram.io/d/GLOBAL-AGENT-667b0cd79939893dae3ecffd

**Wireframe** & **Workflow**: https://www.figma.com/board/uXvEwPA6D7COhDQfPEOi4g/Game-Wireframes?node-id=0-1&t=smUWPUZvSoTq0Hw9-0

**SLIDE**: <button><a href="?">PLAY!</a></button>

Commit message:

added all user stories as well, 8 in all

README.md, after:

# Portfolio Project - `TEAM 1`
## PROJECT APP - FULLSTACK 
### (w/ Firebase)

**Global Agent** by `Anita Owen`, `Armando Pires`, `Brenda Soto`, `Luis Tejada` and `Marlon Regis`!🧑🏾‍💻 We also had some incredible `global mentors` from both design and technical teams @ BLACKSTONE that helped guide us along the way and deserve mention: `Aditi Bhatia` & `Rachel Tamarkin` (Design) x `Sophia Setsu` & `Punit Naik` (Technical). You ALL are very much appreciated!

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/t_Gradient fade/v1720196363/GlobalAgent-Home_yo5qv7.jpg" alt="Global Agent!" width="800" height="400">

**Global Agent** is a form of `edutainment` where players -- middle to high school aged, join an elite agency of news detectives, solving cases by investigating current events and world news. Gamified Education at its best.

## Game Structure
1. **Agency Headquarters**(Dashboard): The main interface where players manage their detective profile, view cases, and track progress.

2. **Case Files**: Each news article becomes a case file, complete with a brief, eye-catching headline and a "difficulty rating".

3. **Investigation Process**:
   - Read the article summary (case briefing)
   - Gather evidence (answer questions about the article) 
   - Connect the dots/write up case report (final summary question or task)

4. **Ranking System**:
   - Rookie Detective - 0 xp
   - Junior Investigator - 500 xp
   - Gumshoe - 1300 xp
   - Chief Detective - 2800 xp
   - Master Sleuth - 5000 xp

5. **Rewards**:
   - Detective badges for different countries
   - Agency points for solving cases and leveling up to buy special gear or tools

6. **Missions**:
   - Daily cases (breaking news)
   - Weekly investigations (in-depth stories)

### Future Features
7. **Multiplayer Elements**:
   - Form detective teams to solve complex cases
   - Agency vs Agency competitions
   - Global leaderboards

8. **Mini-games**:
   - Spot the fake news
   - Rapid fact-checking
   - Guess what country the case file images is from


Our efforts to build this app utilized the following below **Project Tools & Skills**:
- React Hooks
- React Router 6.2.1
- Forms
- Express Server Starter
- Database Schema
- Seed Data
- Middleware
- Controlled Inputs
- Event Handlers
- Fetch API
- Promises
- Error Components (included)
- Data Manipulation & Parsing
- Helper Functions
- Cloudinary
- Firebase
- Trello Board
- dbdiagram (ERDs)
- wireframes (figma)
- HTML, CSS, JS
- CSS Grid 
- Render.com backend deployment
- Netlify.com frontend deployment
- DATABASE (ElephantSQL & Postico)
- Self learning
- Several APIs (including World News API)
- ChatGPT
- AI

**Access**: `Global Agent` is a mobile app, go to (netlify link: ?) to access our `Global Agent` app.


## ROUTES
Many routes were used for the following files below:

-


<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720199090/GlobalAgent-top_secret_nox0i7.png" alt="top secret!" width="600" height="400">


## User Stories

1. The app should be free to download, informative and be available on any mobile device.

2. As a user, I want to create a personalized detective avatar and profile so that I can immerse myself in the role of a news detective.

3. As a user, I want to receive daily or weekly news cases to solve, complete with clues and tasks, so that I can stay engaged and informed about current events.

4. As a repeat user, I want to earn badges and rewards for solving cases and completing educational challenges, so that I feel motivated to continue using the app and learning.

5. As an avid user, I want to be able to participate in leaderboards and compete with friends or other users, so that I can see how my investigative skills stack up and stay motivated to improve.

6. As a user, I want to collaborate with my peers on complex cases and share insights through in-app messaging or forums, so that I can learn from others and improve my teamwork skills.

7. As a repeat user, I want to track my progress and review the cases I have solved, so that I can reflect on my learning journey and see my improvement over time.

8. As an avid user, I want to receive feedback and tips from virtual mentors or experts within the app, so that I can enhance my investigative skills and become more knowledgeable about world news.


## USER PERSONAS:

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720465536/GlobalAgent-Sarah_wdlnqn.webp" alt="Sarah!" width="300" height="300">

1. Meet `Sarah Thompson`, **Sarah** is a 42-year-old mother of two, including 15-year-old Max, a high school sophomore. Sarah, a marketing executive, values education and staying informed about world events. She's increasingly concerned about Max's lack of interest in current affairs and his tendency to spend hours on social media and video games. Max finds traditional news sources boring and overwhelming. Sarah reaches out to Max's Social Studies teacher for advice on making current events more appealing to teenagers. She's looking for interactive, engaging tools that can compete with Max's favorite apps while sneaking in educational content. When the teacher recommends the `Global Agent` web app, Sarah immediately sees a blend of Max's love for gaming with her desire for him to learn about the world. Sarah hopes Max will enjoy using this app, sparking his curiosity about global issues and improving his critical thinking skills.


<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720466199/GlobalAgent-Alex_Chen_uxq1hf.jpg" alt="Alex!" width="300" height="300">

2. Meet `Alex Chen` -- **Alex**, a 14yo 8th grader, represents the ideal user for the `Global Agent` app. Tech-savvy and curious about world events, Alex seeks an engaging way to learn about current affairs while improving critical thinking skills. Motivated by a competitive drive and a love for solving mysteries, Alex enjoys the game's interactive elements, visual progress tracking, and variety of challenges. Despite having a short attention span for traditional news, an eager Alex checks the app daily, tackling quick cases on weekdays and longer investigations on weekends. The game helps Alex balance educational content with entertainment, while providing a platform to discuss current events with peers and family.


## ABOUT US!
<p align="center">
  <b>Anita Owen:</b> <a href="https://github.com/AnitaOwen">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720015246/AnitaMagentaphoto1_dt1uea.jpg" alt="Anita!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Armando Pires:</b> <a href="https://github.com/ArmandoPires103">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720020802/Armando_Pires_2_lljm1y.jpg" alt="Armando!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Brenda Soto:</b> <a href="https://github.com/BSoto85">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1711388131/TeaWhips-Brenda_ybojtq.jpg" alt="Brenda!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Luis Tejada:</b> <a href="https://github.com/Blui322">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720021062/Luis_Tejada_2_xyauz4.jpg" alt="Luis!" width="300" height="300">

<p align="center">
  <b>Marlon Regis:</b> <a href="https://github.com/MarlonPelau">GitHub</a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/t_Profile/v1712883521/pelau_yfhd9e.png" alt="Marlon!" width="300" height="300">

Some of us just want to code!


### Visual Examples
The following are examples of the `Global Agent` app being built at different stages. Here are just a few rough and sketchy images showing the process. The entire navigation flow aims to move in this direction directly below.

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720446301/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.44.37_AM_xc7o0r.png" alt="workflow" width="800" height="400">


*WIREFRAMES* (mobile) for different pages throughout the `Global Agent` app.

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720446495/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.47.44_AM_frjnxv.png" alt="Landing/Home" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720447060/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.57.09_AM_tnzpse.png" alt="Sign-Up" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720463960/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_2.38.48_PM_q8fcic.png" alt="Achievements View" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720463960/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_2.38.48_PM_q8fcic.png" alt="Leaderboard View" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720448616/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_10.23.04_AM_hos26b.png" alt="Countries View" width="250" height="400">

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720463960/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_2.38.48_PM_q8fcic.png" alt="Case File View" width="250" height="400">


*ERDs* (tables)

<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dgifdj6nx/image/upload/v1720446179/Screenshot_2024-07-08_at_9.41.54_AM_bd51nt.png" alt="Global Agent" width="600" height="400">


# DEPLOYMENT (& SLIDE) LINKS

### Frontend Deployment: https://github.com/BSoto85/global-agent-frontend
**my netlify.com link**: ?

### Backend Deployment: https://github.com/BSoto85/global-agent-backend
**my render.com link**: ?

**ERD**: https://dbdiagram.io/d/GLOBAL-AGENT-667b0cd79939893dae3ecffd

**Wireframe** & **Workflow**: https://www.figma.com/board/uXvEwPA6D7COhDQfPEOi4g/Game-Wireframes?node-id=0-1&t=smUWPUZvSoTq0Hw9-0

**SLIDE**: <button><a href="?">PLAY!</a></button>
